Hello. My name is Alfredo Deza.
I'm going to give you a brief walk-through through
the project to create a Jenkins Pipeline set up on AWS.
Right here, we're seeing the AWS console for a specific user that has been
created with the right permissions to run a T2 micro instance.
It's a VM that is running on the US East zone,
and the VM has been running for a little while now.
We have gone ahead and set up this machine so that we can install and configure
Jenkins and connect to your instance
pop up gives you a little bit of an overview of how to get there,
how to connect and get to your machine.
This instance is now running.
We're going to see that now Jenkins is running on this URL,
and you can see the port 8080 is being used.
This is the basic bare-bones Jenkins interface that we went ahead and
installed and configured Blue Ocean which is the pipeline ready version of Jenkins,
which should give us a nice interface
or a nicer interface in these so that we can visualize better our pipelines.
A link should appear here staying open Blue Ocean,
and let's click that and see how that looks.
Once this loads, you can see that there is, first of all,
everything looks very different,
and we have one item in our pipeline called static.
Let's click on that and see how that looks again.
You can see here there's been three runs.
The first one when the project was created,
then a passing one.
Apparently things got fixed there and a third one where invalid HTML was done.
The usefulness of pipelines here is that it
will prevent certain items in the pipeline to continue if there is a failure.
Let's look at how the first one got messed up.
But you can see here that the linking step failed and nothing was uploaded to AWS.
Basically, here was an error where the Linter was not installed.
Here you get tidy not found.
We're using tidy, which is an HTML Linter.
After it got installed into the system,
we went ahead and rerun,
and you can see here how the Linting step went okay,
and then the file was finally uploaded to AWS.
This stage went and pushed the changes to Static Jenkins Pipeline,
which is the bucket I created,
and the upload was successful.
The pipeline as well has been set up to be pulling changes from
GitHub from the static repo or static project.
Whenever there's a change,
like you can see here,
a change was pushed so that invalid HTML was created.
It prevented an upload to AWS for the next step.
When there's a problem with the Linting step,
the Linter complains and
in this case it's the complaints about it that shouldn't be there.
This is all really useful and whenever there's a successful step like this one,
the pipeline will push the changes to the static URL.
Though the index file looks like this,
and it's just very basic HTML that has
a single line that says this is the first paragraph in a simple static HTML site,
and there's no CSS or JavaScript.
It was up on Amazon S3,
which is this one.
Static Jenkins pipeline, which again,
this is the name of the bucket.
It should be unique for every single packet that is created here,
and it has enabled static hosting.
It has DS3 website and it's on Amazon AWS.
The contents of these is the exact same as in the repo.
Though whenever a change is done to the repository that changes the index HTML
and the pipeline is successful with a Linting and uploading files to Amazon,
it will work fine.
Again, this is just how things will work once everything is tied up together.
There's a lot of things that you can do here like rerun and basically
wait for things to get triggered once there are changes in GitHub.
That's it. That's the overview for the Jenkins pipelines on AWS Project,
and I hope you get to learn how to deploy and configure
these and deploy some pipelines. Thank you.